A programming language is a set of gramatical rules and vocabulary given by compiler(Interpreter) for instructing a computer or machine to perform specific task .

For example : C,C++,Objective-C,Swift,COBOL,PASCAL,Pearl,Java,Python and so on.

LTS : Long Term Support

Keywords : Keywords are predefined reserved words 
- There are 53 reserved words in java .
- In these 53 keywords , 50 are keywords and remaining 3 are literals .
- Java is a highly case sensitive programming language .
- And all the reserved words are always written in small letters .
- outside class nothing ispossible in java except two statements 1. Import statement 2. Package Statement
- If class is public then class name and file name must be same 
- Reserved words of windows 
	1.con
	2.aux
	3.prn
	4.com1
	5.com2
	6.com3
	7.com 4 UPTO 9
 	8.LPT 1 UPTO 9
	9.nul
After compilation , Java compiler generates byte code in the form of .class file .

Standards for class name 

1. Class name should be meaningful .
2. Class name should be in camel case .
3. Class name should be noun .

Rules for class name

1. Class name does not have any white spaces .
2. Class name does not have any special character except $ and _ 
3. CLass name must start with a non digit character .
4. Class name can contain digits but after first place .
5. Class name cannot duplicates keywords .

Executable Class
1. Executable class must have default name method . The syntax of default main method is public static void main(String[] args).
2. Main method is the entry point of the class .
3. Main method is called by JVM at runtime .
4. Without the concept of JVM is not executable .

Manipulations of main method

Console
1. Output window is known as console
2. Standard Input and Output device is known as console .

System is a class in Java
Out is an Output stream available in system class .
Println is a method in Java and this method is responsible to print something on console

Control Statements 
1. Control statements are those statements which are responsible to change the flow of execution of a program .
2. There are mainly 3 types of control statements a) Decision making statements , b) Iterational statemts , c) Branching statemnts

Decision making statements :
There are 4 decision making statements:
	1. if
	2. iF-else
	3. Ladder if-else
	4. Nested if-else

If and else both are keywords in java.

Syntax of if-else statement:
	if(condition){
	}
	else{
	}

If and else both are couple in java.

Iterational Statements:
-while loop 
-for loop 
-nested for loop 
-labelling of loop
-break statement
-continue statement
-do-while loop
-nested do-while 
-for-each loop
-manipulations of if-else
-manipulations of while
-manipulations of for

Branching Statements
-Multi-Way Brabching statemts
The example of Multi-Way Brabching statemt is Switch Case.